Everyone, it's a good Monday.
Cold Monday? Definitely.
Good.
Umm.
Can you see my screen?
Yeah.
Yep.
Awesome. OK.
Several things I haven't started my
grading homework yet, so then.
I guess the issue I have is for the
assignment one.
I didn't put the the assignment into
different groups.
That's why some of you see, you know,
0 as the final score.
But since I haven't started grading yet,
so then I will change it eventually.
So don't worry,
you'll have a hopefully a nonzero grade.
Depending on the summon the the
submission of your homework.
And then and then the entire team will
have the same score, right?
So then that's how you do the groom groom
homework.
That's for assignment one.
And.
Assignment two is going to do Tuesday.
I'm sorry,
going to do the Monday in the coming week
and then I have already.
Uploaded assignment three.
So assignment three,
you just basically one KNN model.
So I think it should be easy.
And the same due date March the 3rd.
You and your team need to submit a final
proposal.
Right. So then what you're going to do?
What you're going to do for the final
project?
Let me just use Group One as example,
right?
So no, no, where is that?
A student.
Right.
So you and your team need to evaluation
hopefully before March the 3rd.
Decide what you guys want to do, right?
So then.
Hopefully you're trying to solve any
problem in finance or corporate finance.
And and tell me and tell the other people
why the problem is so important and why
you want to solve this problem.
And hopefully you can provide some
background information whether you learn
from your company or or you learn from
news or you think that some making sense
to develop anything around.
For the data you have to grab your data.
The data could be, oh,
someone asked a question. OK, go ahead,
John.
Yeah,
this is about the assignments though.
Yeah.
Are they supposed to be visible right now?
Because I'm only able to see assignment
one.
Oh really?
OK. Interesting.
Hmm.
And anyone?
Oh, are you?
Because you're not in a group, right?
So can anyone else see the assignment too?
Yep. Yeah,
I can see assignment two and three in the
OK.
proposal.
Yeah, John,
because you are not in those groups.
Yep, so I'm here.
So then that's maybe the reason why you
cannot see assignment 2.
I see your note.
I'm just wondering if if any group.
John just joined us.
So then any group maybe you know,
have one spot for John?
Just go ahead.
You know, tell John.
So then John can join you guys.
But John,
I'll contact you know students folks here
and then I'll circle back to you.
So if you have some difficulty finishing
the assignment #2, just let me know.
And then we can we can postpone the due
date of the deadline of assignment #2.
Hello, John.
Yep, sounds good. Thank you.
But for this proposal, right?
So you guys need to bring your own data.
What you want to do?
And.
And you'll unfortunately you have to use.
Fortunately,
unfortunately you have to use dear friend
machine learning and AI models.
In your final project, right?
You need to know.
You need to tell me.
Any quantifiable results from building
the model.
And whatever metric you wanna use is
totally fine.
And then just during the proposal,
just let me know what your expectations
will be looking like just you feel this
is going to drive the value?
You think you feel pessimistic that you
may not derive any result you want to
derive, so it's totally fine.
Just give me your expectation,
your prediction.
And whatever you want to do and then just
basically give me a two or three pages by
by March the 3rd.
And just go go ahead and upload to D2L.
That's how you do it.
So I'll read it.
Highly likely I'll create.
I'll create a high tool to read to grade
it like I I'm it's working on creating
tool to create your first homework.
So then they're gonna be the same
standard across the board.
And also,
since I do have the the office hours
right.
So then you can just reach out and then.
Talk to me about your ideas.
Because I do want you guys to create some
pretty practical and creative kind of use
cases of mlai in finance in your work,
in corporate finance,
in whatever you're interested in.
I I just don't want it to be like you
just download some random data from
different resources and repeat whatever
some people have done.
So then just try to do something really
cool.
I do cool stuff,
but that's that's really the whole any
questions?
OK. I guess silence means no question.
Eric, sorry,
I have one question for this proposal.
Oh.
This is just this proposal is 2 to 3
pages of the final product is 2 to 3
pages.
The proposal is 2 to 3 pages.
You you do not have to have anything in
terms of coding in terms of development,
anything done before you submit the
proposal.
The proposal just basically I you commit
your thoughts, your time.
You know after thinking about what you're
going to deliver for the final project,
right, so.
Then.
Nothing. Nothing should be done.
Can be done or would be done before the
submitting the the final proposal.
That's totally fine.
Just let me know what you guys want to do.
And during the second-half of this
semester, hope you know spring break,
March and April,
you have the time working with your team
to deliver whatever you want to deliver,
right?
So then we do have a final presentation
that's not going to be like only two to
three pages and then you guys gonna show
that what you have done in this semester
to your peers, right?
So then nothing need to be done before
proposal just.
What you wanna do?
Thank you.
Any other questions?
So just for just a kind reminder, right?
So then for the timeline perspective?
Right.
So then you have you have the homework
due the homework and proposal due the
same day the March the 3rd.
So then I will highly recommend you start
early before the very last week before
this the March the 3rd and then you
finish everything and finish the class.
You know,
you go ahead and celebrate spring break.
In a week of March 10th.
Then we come back for this second-half.
Of of the class.
So then just kind of reminder,
now you do have a homework and final
proposal due the same day, OK?
And like what I said,
you manage your time, OK.
Hopefully no questions.
No questions, right?
OK.
No question.
OK.
So then I want you guys to start with one
problem today or as a as a group project,
right?
So then let's solve one problem together,
and then you can consider this is.
It's a warm up for your final proposal.
So let's think the case right?
So now the case is.
You are going to buy a house.
So you're going to buy a house,
and then you're going to.
Going to determine whether.
An offer you could you can just submit an
offer to to the host to the.
To the house owner.
So then and then and then let's say let's
assume that.
Assume you are going to find a house.
In the the greater Milwaukee area.
You know, Milwaukee maquon.
Those are considered greater Milwaukee
area, OK.
The first question,
let's say assume you are.
You are going to build.
To build a model.
To predict.
A house price.
OK.
What data do you need?
To have a more accurate model so that you
can, you know,
the data could be how big the house is,
the data will be a lot of things.
So if in case you wanna build a model,
what kind of data do you need?
The second question is what model?
Are you?
Are you going to use?
So the model could be or.
Let's change the clash end.
The question is, how do you determine?
If one prize.
Listed say realtor.
Is a fair price.
And.
In case.
There is any difference?
Between.
Realtors price realtor.com's price.
And your price?
What is your strategy?
Let's say you only want to buy one house,
right?
So then how do you how do you build
everything to make some profit buying
that house?
Well,
I guess let's say the house is not
necessarily for you to leave.
It could be like some house that you you
can buy and sell, right?
So then,
so the basically like 3 questions.
I.
O type.
I'll copy those three questions into.
The chat.
So any any confusion around those three
questions at all?
Any confusion around the assumption and
why we're doing this doing this case?
No.
OK,
I will submit the entire group of 18
people into several separate rooms so
that for the next 15 minutes,
you guys gonna work on those.
Three questions and then hopefully we can
eventually have some ideas of how we can
predict those.
How surprised.
OK,
but before we go then just double check
any confusion.
Any question about those questions that
you guys gonna discuss?
OK.
All right. So then now is 546.
So that you guys have 15 minutes.
Hopefully you can have figured out some
game plan with your peers.
So then I go separate you guys into 5
rooms.
So then.
Each room will have 4-5 people,
so let's do.
The discussion will come back around 602,
OK.
Yes. Wait.
Hmm.
Alright.
Haroon,
are you the only person with me right now
in the main room?
OK.
Welcome back.
Just to double check,
you guys can hear me right.
Yep.
All right. OK.
And you volunteer to provide what you and
your group.
Your your group saw any thought on those
questions?
Yeah.
So we said what data we needed would be
square footage,
neighborhood housing prices.
OK.
The.
Hold on, neighborhood.
Oh yeah.
Neighborhood, OK.
So how do you?
What kind of neighborhood do you need?
Like the the previous selling prices of
other houses in the neighborhood.
Oh.
Previously.
Prices. OK, that's that's a good one and.
The neighborhood prices, right?
Yep.
OK.
Is this so? You need a house size?
Craig and a square foot. OK, OK.
Any other data you need.
Oh yeah, we also did number of bedrooms,
number of bathrooms and when the house
was built.
Bathrooms.
You're build.
Any other info?
We had pretty much the same thing,
but we would add the schooling system in
that area because that's usually a big
factor when people are buying a house.
Oh.
Exactly. Exactly.
Yeah, I have a daughter. I know that.
Yeah, any other.
Yeah.
I would also add parks and public
transportation.
Oh, public public transport.
Yeah, and park nearby.
Yep. Parks. Yep.
Perks. OK.
It's another one.
Or like the land that it's on.
Yeah, the yard.
Or yard or something, right?
You could do like type of property like a
single family, a condo,
townhouse wherever it is.
Some kind of single family house.
Yes, exactly.
Tc OK.
Maybe property taxes?
Good one.
So you like to purchase some houses in
the area where the property tax is low.
Good. Why not, right?
Yeah, either or.
I mean give and take for both, yeah.
Save you some money? Yes, good.
What is the property tax in the Milwaukee
area?
Do you guys know?
One of the highest in the nation,
I know for a major city at least.
Yeah.
OK, I used to live in New York so.
We we there is one title in the newspaper,
local New York newspaper.
The the subject the title is.
That article is at least we are not New
Jersey.
I.
I I heard New Jersey has the highest tax
overall, but not necessarily property tax.
So I Milwaukee is one of the highest in
the nation.
I didn't know that.
Wow.
And it's like 2.3% or something.
It's also been.
Oh wow.
Yep,
this this date's been keeping a lot of
money as well.
So the city has to raise money by taxes.
3% we say that's enough .3%.
.3%.
Wait only .3%.
So two. Yeah, it's about like 2.3, yeah.
22.3.
2.3 OK.
OK.
Well,
I know some some suburban of Chicago
suburban areas are really 3% or something
like that.
Any state without property tax at all.
Yeah, I just looked it up real quick.
And the first thing said,
Milwaukee's 17th in the nation.
Oh, OK, not not too bad.
17th in the nation.
Milwaukee.
Which which?
Where is the highest 1:00 somewhere in
California?
Other other factors?
O with touch based.
House size neighborhood previous
previously selling price.
Neighborhood selling prices,
the current selling price, OK.
Number bedroom number, bathrooms,
year built school system nearby public
transport,
number parks maybe and the total land
belongs to the house.
Condo single family houses.
Property tax.
So I guess we we were talking about the
condo and the single family house and one
thing is called HOA.
A social visit, OK.
Another thing could be house size.
Garage, right?
For example, like how?
How big the garage is a number of cars.
You can park in your garage.
And the basement, for example,
basement size as as a metric.
Schooling system. OK, that's good. OK.
Pretty, pretty good. OK.
So now you have those features, right? So.
Do you?
Let's just go 1 by 1.
Do you think that house size in terms of
square foot,
is that a numerical feature or do you
think this is a categorical feature or
other features?
That we we wanna use categorical features
could be yes or no could be different
categories.
Anyone has any thought house size?
Numerical.
In numerical just used numerical.
Previously,
prize is definitely new miracle.
Neighborhood selling price numerical.
Number of bedrooms do you consider number
of bedroom, numerical or categorical?
Numerical.
So OK,
since since Adrian you are the volunteer
answering the questions,
what's the difference if you consider
this as a numerical versus a categorical?
I mean the difference.
Putting putting me on the spot now.
No, sure.
No, I'm sorry.
No, no, you're good just because.
You don't really categorize it between
like a one bedroom or a two-bedroom.
It's more of just I I don't exactly.
Sure.
Put it.
The the question is really being like
adding one bedroom.
Do you think that one additional bedroom
really add some value to that?
To that house.
So then you can quantify that delta in
terms of dollar value will be?
So then if we do consider the number of
bedrooms,
say I have 4 bedrooms versus I have 5
bedrooms,
so then one additional bedroom really add.
For example, like $200,
000 to that's to that the house.
Yes,
you can definitely consider this a
numerical.
So then you're right.
I mean it's.
I'll see either one.
OK, Hastings just got easier.
Nice number of bathroom rooms.
I think we can consider those as a
numerical.
Garage in terms of square foot,
so it could be a miracle.
Number of cars, numerical basement,
square foot numerical.
You're of a Butte.
Do we consider this a numerical or
categorical?
Categorical.
Yeah,
I I would think this is the first one
category or call because you wanna
compare.
Houses build in a same here together,
right?
So we wanna compare like one house
building 2001.
You consider that the year will make some
sense,
so then you can compare the houses with
the same year together.
So you wouldn't necessarily consider like
one, yes.
And you could say 1-1 year younger.
So then that year will bring some value
to the house value,
but usually you compare the houses with
same year.
Of view together schooling system.
So how do we use that feature?
Is a numerical or categorical?
How do we use that new schooling system
feature?
It's categorical but.
Hmm.
Potentially build it off of like some
numerical like ratings and stuff as well.
OK,
so you can actually bring some ratings,
right?
So then from different website so then
you can use the ratings.
If you do use the ratings it can be
numerical.
But if you are just basically use the.
School district.
Information so that that is categorical.
Right.
So then it really depend on how you use
this information.
Public transport. This is a good one.
I love this one,
but how do how are we going to use this
information?
I mean,
how do we convert this this this concept
of a public transport into something that
a model can learn from?
I know on Zillow they make like they make
grades for like how close it is or to
Mm hmm.
public transport or what's available.
So you could use a grade.
Yep, Yep.
So you could be great. So then one.
Being no bus nearby and then five being
like you can find all different kind of
public transport nearby.
Yeah. So it's a good one.
So great.
So then you have to bring.
The issue is if you rely on Zee load.
So that means that you had to bring the
third party data.
But but. But if you do,
if you are able to bring the third party
data such as from from zero I I do not
know if zero offers any APIs.
So then you.
Yeah. So you you have a grade,
you can use it as.
As a numerical or categorical is really
up to you.
Number of parks.
Miracle.
Number of parks nearby numerical.
Them yard numerical.
So.
Different house property types,
condo versus single family house.
I I think this is categorical, right?
Hoa numerical a quick question.
If you cannot find HOA information for
some specific condo or or apartment,
how do you use that information?
So for example, like if you try to,
I guess you're trying to fetch the data
from zero.com.
If in Case 0 does offer an API,
you're gonna flash the data over there.
But if it's some, you know, condos.
Apartments and then zero offers like
amazing value.
And how do you accomplish those missing
values?
But you know,
this is an apartment and it should have
HOA around associated with it.
OK.
So those are something questions that we
gonna touch later.
So what about missing data, right?
So property tax 2.3% in Milwaukee.
So I understand.
Well, we're talking about.
We're trying to find a housing greater
Milwaukee area in case that in the
greater Milwaukee area the property tax
is the same 2.3%.
Do you think there's a property tax 2.
3% that 17 top city in the nation?
Would affect houses and house prices in
Milwaukee area.
I guess the question is if you want to
bring the property tax.
Historical trend?
I think that makes sense.
So they use it as a numerical feature,
and that makes perfect sense.
But if you just sitting in a year of 2025
and you're purchasing those,
you're trying to purchase those houses,
you're you're predicting house prices in
Milwaukee area and they have the same
property tax 2.3%. And I guess this 2.3%.
Is the same.
Across all the houses in this area so
that it may not change the price,
but year by year changes definitely
change the price in the Milwaukee area.
So then I guess you're talking about
bring that trend historical trend here,
OK.
So now we have the first question answers.
We wanna bring those information in
consideration, OK.
So what kind of model are we going to to
to use those information to, to, to, to,
to?
Generate 1 price.
In case you you do find one house.
You you collect all.
You gather all the information around
those metrics you want to collect and how
are you going to build a model to give
you a fair price that in your mind?
And then is there anyone raising your
hand?
OK. And then, OK, so.
Haroon, you?
Can you can just you can just spill out
the type.
So can you end good one?
Any other thought?
The question is as simple as in case you
guys are really curious.
I I guess maybe you guys are too young to
look for house, right?
So then in case you are looking for a
house,
you collect those information and then
you have to find you have to find several
houses.
You said you want to know the
neighborhood price, right?
Neighborhood selling price in case you
want to find you want to buy an apartment
near Market University.
And you do know the neighborhood selling
prices?
Are you you guys, really?
Build a KN model.
If you know this information,
how do you find if if that price is
making sense to you guys?
So it looks at old houses.
This recent sell price of a area.
And gives you a price based on the
nearest point on the scales.
Or if I'm in Milwaukee and there's a
house selling for 110,000,
that's sold for 110,000 in 2023.
So it's gonna give me the closest price
if I'm looking at the same area,
so it's gonna give me the 100 and 100,
000 price for that house.
Right. So then say in a similar area,
right,
so that you already collect 1010 prizes,
right?
So then or or or 20.
So then what kind of calculation are you
gonna?
You're you're going to exercise to come
up with a prize in your mind.
You know, you know,
it doesn't have to be really complicated.
Well, maybe I'm just doing some cold call.
So. So, Haroon says.
You mentioned that idea, right?
So then what calculation are we going to
do?
Are you really going to build AKA model
around it?
So the K NN model would be the best one.
Because you if you're able to look at
previous sell price of houses in that
Mm hmm.
neighborhood,
you could compare the specs of the house
you are currently looking to buy.
And you could compare it to pause data
and see which which which house had the
similar specs and what price it sold for.
So you could estimate a price according
Uh huh.
to that.
I.
I guess yes. Yeah, I guess if you sure.
I think I think Zillow uses the same
thing as well,
where it collects data on nearby
properties and gives you spits out an
estimate based out of them.
Right. So then yeah,
I definitely use the KNN.
But but if you have to collect those data,
I understand you can run Python code to
collect the data through you know API.
But you have to collect data reading some
articles I guess KNN you're going to
require a lot of data.
But say you only collect 510.
You could do naive base or what naive
base be a good model because it's if
Houses.
you're looking at 10 houses or if you're
looking at many houses naive basis,
a small model and could easily run
through an entire list very quickly
compared to KNN.
Sure. I mean, if you only have 10 houses,
why don't you just take the average?
Similar to linear regression,
one linear regression.
Right. You know. Yeah, even or same as,
you know, linear regression.
You know,
you may not have to do like a KNN.
Say you have 10 houses prizes nearby.
Repl.
You can just calculate average any any
issue with that.
Yeah.
Because KNN is sort of like an average as
well, right?
So then you know you have the prices.
Nearby is also an average.
So then yeah,
you can definitely calculate the average
or or linear regression.
Any other ways that you can come up with
a price.
No. You'll ask her last year.
You're a realtor.
You know your realtor may have, like,
their life experience based upon
experience.
You could also use the property tax value.
The assessed value of the property based
on City's property tax.
Mm HMM, property tax multiply.
This was what's it called.
There are some prize from government.
And then you can do a markup model.
Yeah, totally.
And any other ideas that you can find the
price?
No. OK. All right.
So then say you have a prize whatever way
from those ways, right, so.
If your prize is different to Realtors
prize or or Zillow, right.
Let me just change this realtor.
com or or zillow.com.
Because when I was trying to purchase my
house, I do see that.
Whatever I believe that price it is.
It's different to zeros or or or Realtors.
And what would you do?
If if the price you calculated is higher,
you should probably buy it.
By though.
Buy low, sell high.
Yeah.
Sure. It's like a stock, right?
Or you can try to dig in.
I I feel like a lot of your folks are
already doing that is figured out.
How? Realtor.
Or Zillow.
Price the houses because they're running
the model anyways, right?
So then they figured out what the pros
and cons.
Of their models.
I'll just look at the features of the
house.
If the house is big compared to what
jillo's thinking or it it's it's been
finished or it has new appliances that
could impact the property price as well.
Yeah.
Yeah, I've heard of features, right?
Good.
And also another thing is important for
you is you're buying a house.
You're not giving this equal way to all
those features and then believe me,
there are gonna be another 100 features
behind the scene.
You're not giving the same weight around
those features,
so that you definitely have your
prioritization right.
So then if you ask me what I care is how
big the basement is because I'm teaching
you guys in my basement, right?
So that and and.
And if you ask my wife,
so then she gonna consider how big the
yard is because she she she loves the
plants.
And if you ask my daughter,
she gonna give you a totally different
answer because she cares about you.
The neighborhood where you can,
she can find her friends.
You're not putting equal weight on those.
Those factors and the information you
collected, right?
So then that's why you may not 100% rely
on.
Those prices you can put different ways.
You can select your features and
calculate the price and then that will be
the price you're willing to pay.
You know,
there's a still a a difference between
the willing to pay price and the least
surprise or out of door price.
You know,
because other people's willing to pay
price is totally different to you're
willing to pay price, right?
So they need to figure out the willing to
pay.
I see.
Well, if you're willing to pay,
prize is actually lower than you know,
the selling price on on Zillow or realtor.
You know, there's a good,
good chance that you're gonna buy the
house because now gonna now will maximize
your utility of of buying this house.
Those are really.
Good, right?
So then.
Really quick way you can just go.
To that area or or focus on area and then
try to find houses nearby.
Collect that information.
How much that house has been sold?
And then you know,
if you you're really buying a house,
your realtor gonna tell you that
information.
I bought a house and then first time and
then my realtor gave me some report and
in that report,
nearly at least there's a lot of houses
sold nearby.
And you know similar rate period of time.
So then what I did,
I just took some average I you know I'm
doing this.
I'm teaching you guys this machine
learning class,
but what actually I did is I just
basically doing some.
Average price and then also I just
selected those price near my my house.
And then I I I set up a radius and then I
select those houses nearby and calculate
average.
That's how I did it.
Turns out it works because because I I
feel.
I feel I I feel I make a good, great deal,
OK?
Those are great information and then this
is a great case.
So then you guys collect a lot of
information and then figure out a way to
do the modeling and then and then and
then and then derive some strategy based
upon the data.
Or analysis you made, right?
So then.
These two.
Well,
I mean more than one page could be a
great proposal, right?
You're gonna submit for your final
project, right?
So that you just need to tell me why you
are doing this.
The why is I'm going to buy a house.
I feel I can.
I can make a good model for myself and
for my family,
and then and then I feel I can build a
model to give me a fair price.
To me and to my family,
that's your purpose.
And you tell me what kind of data you
need.
This is the data I talk to my friends.
I talk to my peers in the group.
I need those data and then tell me
there's numerical categorical and where
you gonna flash those data.
Some of data are easy from Garmin website.
Some of the data I have to grab I have to
fetch from zero.
API and some of the data I I know you
gonna provide some.
Why are you?
But you know, eventually I review it.
Maybe it's not so then just provide the
data you you want to collect and provide
how to use the data and provide where you
gonna fetch the data, right?
And then just talk about, you know,
what kind of model possible model you can
build you.
I can I can build this km model.
I can just basically build an average of
neighborhood model and then as use it as
a benchmark.
And I can also talk to experienced people.
Whatever model you wanna build, right?
So then give me your expectation.
I feel this average model will work,
but it's definitely not as accurate as K
and word.
Other deep learning models you you can
give me that expectation and then just
build some strategy since I'm going to
trust my price.
Yes, zero or realtor.
They are giving me the price based upon
more complex models,
but that is not a model.
I will rely on because they put equal
weight or different weight on the
basically predicting price,
but I have my willing to pay price which
is different to that so that I still
going to trust on my model and then I
want to do something or based upon.
My strategy based on my model.
And and that is your proposal.
Isn't that easy?
Straightforward. Any questions?
I I hope your proposal will be as
straightforward as this one right.
So that if you wanna really tailor this,
you can really throw it in chat.
Gbt,
chatb to Polish your proposal for you.
But the skeleton of your your proposal is
this. Nothing more, nothing less.
OK.
I hope you work with your friends,
your peers in the study group.
One hour or two hours you have that
proposal for you.
OK, don't spend like.
More than four hours, I would say.
The one there were two hours.
It could be if you're sufficient.
If you're you're efficient enough,
you can have a pretty good proposal and
make sure that the proposal is workable
for your team and and keep one thought in
your mind is who's doing what.
You know,
you don't have to submit that to me,
but within your group you can start.
You can start dividing and conquering,
right?
So then you can just divide and conquer
like who's doing what,
a is going to collect the data.
Because they are all from 0B can collect
the data from Garmin website C can
collect the data from other sources and D
is assuming there is some sample data
available to start building some models
and start coding those models and E could
start you know collecting those.
Results into a final report or slides.
That's how you guys going to define your
role in a in a final project.
And then I hope it will be as
straightforward as.
As this OK any questions?
No questions, OK.
So the reason we brought this House
information is I do appreciate whoever
mentioned neighborhood selling prices,
right?
So then actually those are pretty good
features. A lot of these,
you know reflect you know how us really
seeing a set up of references of of
whatever we want to purchase because you
want to purchase a car,
you want to purchase anything.
You always rely on some reference.
This is, you know, really a human nature.
Sure.
You you are telling something's good or
bad is not based upon absolute
distribution of that thing.
You know you're thinking about, you know,
one group is doing great because you're
thinking about your performance.
You're thinking about your friends
performance.
You're building some reference and then
you're using the reference judge whether
or not another group or or another group
is doing great job.
So then you're building reference and
then that reference,
not usually coming from.
A distribution.
From the global data, not necessarily.
Usually those those reference coming from
the neighborhood data.
Whatever happened to you?
Whatever happened to your friend?
You do some quick averages and that's
your reference and whether another friend
is doing better than that, you say, oh,
you're definitely doing great.
If it is worse than that,
you definitely gonna work with with him
or her to improve that.
That's how we work together.
That's how we build a reference.
So this is the difference between the you
know human how,
how human thinking about things versus.
How machine working on things.
So then to mimic that thought,
we are really gonna talk about the tree
models where because the tree models is
so simple that is based upon how to build
a reference and based upon how we use the
neighborhood information.
Let me just go through tree model
information.
I do not think we really have to define
what is a tree model.
The tree model is a decision tree, right?
So then the decision tree can be anything.
You, you,
you put a condition you divide the data
into different subgroups that the
condition.
Is is really breaking or splitting that
the entire group of data into different
subgroups which we call them branches,
right?
So then,
for example the the the condition could
be could be age.
Right.
Whoever older than 30 years old in this
class could be only me so that I'm in one
group and you guys another group.
So then whoever older than 30 years old,
if a yes in Group A, if a no in Group B.
So in Group A it's only myself in Group B.
Are you all you guys?
So that's a pretty good condition and not
divide entire group into two branches and
if that's the only tree you care about.
So then that group has only two leaves.
One leaf has only one component in me,
another leaf has all you guys in there.
So then this is a teacher leave and
another one is student leave.
That is, that's a pure.
That's a that's a good decision tree or
another decision tree is I know tomorrow
gonna be cold, right?
So then,
if tomorrow we'll have a snow snow storm
like we'll have what we have several
weeks ago.
Or two weeks ago.
Or one week I forgot.
So that if there's a snow, snow.
Storm tomorrow.
And we're not going to school.
We cancel the school.
We cancel class.
Otherwise we keep class.
So those are really we set up a condition
and then we we we we have two outcomes.
So this is a really like a decision tree.
So just quick question, whoever.
Need some more explanation of what a
decision tree is.
Because we are doing the decision tree
every single day as a human being,
I I I think that's pretty straightforward
concept.
But you know,
if you define in in in a scientific way,
you definitely have long words and long
sentence to find that.
But the decision tree in machine learning
is the same as a decision tree.
We made all the decisions in our life.
Everyday it's the same concept.
But we are using the decision tree
machine learning for different purposes.
To to make it very clear,
we we're making it to two purposes.
One is classification.
Where we gonna do? Yes or no?
The yes or no is if tomorrow there is a
really bad snowstorm.
If that's the condition tomorrow has a
snow storm.
If yes, we cancel class.
If no, we're not cancel class.
So as a Council class, as a yes or no.
So then we're really give a
classification results.
However.
The previous example.
If your age be older than 30 years old,
they go to Group A.
Otherwise, go to Group B,
so then so then that eventually the
number of people in Group A and Group B
or could be the numbers and then.
This is really a a regression task.
So whether you are dealing with
classification,
whether you are dealing with or or you.
Dealing with a regression you can you can
accomplish those tasks using Decision
tree.
I'm pretty sure we are doing the decision
tree every single day.
A good news of decision tree is really a
nonlinear because you are you are making
two decision, three decisions there is.
You are not following a linear
relationship.
You're just basically saying hey
immediate condition, go to One Direction,
middle, not direction.
Go to the opposite direction.
So this is totally nonlinear
relationships.
So we do it every single day.
And we are also using the decision tree
to to decide the house price, right?
Let me just large it.
Spring.
Right. So then let's say this is the,
this is data we are dealing with and then
I tell you the price is a base price as a
average price in Milwaukee area,
200K and plus if you have one more square
foot square feet of the price.
So then I will say you add $50.
00 so then so then this is basically you
know you run.
A price over this House.
Outside and you can.
You can have these $50 associated with
associate with the health size over some
reference to say 200K and then I added
some random noise to it.
So then it looks like this.
It makes sense because the bigger the
house is,
the more expensive that House will be.
So then definitely there is there is a
positive correlation between the house
price.
And house size.
But with the same with the.
Let me just assert a line.
As you can see.
With the same.
With the same house size,
you may have a different prices,
but here or here you have different
prices.
That makes sense, right?
Because I'm just simplify everything into
how size so the random noise is really
modelling all the other features you guys
talk about in this very example,
we just focus on one single feature.
That's how size. Arguably,
that's the most important feature, but.
Other things like the neighbourhood.
Public transportation.
Those are the things that we can model
through this normally distributed wide
noise, right? So then.
Based upon this information,
you can make a judgment OK.
So how to model the price?
The model price could be as simple as
this.
If.
If the house size is less than 2500
square feet, let's just calculate average.
You know it's a 280,000.
It's bigger than that.
It's 300 and 83161 thousand as you can
see this is not a really bad model.
It's pretty all the points around this
horizontal line here and here,
and then you have you even have a two
values for for different groups.
So then you can definitely do that and
you're actually building a distribution
tree.
You are definitely building a a decision
tree if.
This house size bigger than 202,500.
Use this price as a reference price.
Otherwise use this price.
So then you may see some houses that in
this region.
Oh,
then you know what is a lower than this
reference price.
Maybe that's a good deal.
And then you can use it as a future.
To focus on those houses are cheaper than
the reference and figured out if other
features make more sense to you, right?
So then or you can use this reference.
Price this is not a bad model,
and actually when I purchased my house
I'm actually using this model because I'm
calculating average price in the
neighborhood where you can make this even
better you can separate entire you know.
House size into four groups.
And Atkins,
you can see you just make an even better
model and then you you you split the
house price into more buckets.
So this is definitely better.
So then you based upon this,
you can have one decision tree as I
mentioned,
when science is less than that specific
value.
OK, I have a 64 houses less than that.
So then I go here and this is my average
price.
If otherwise I go here,
I have 36 houses bigger than 2733 square
feet.
So square feet,
I go here and then this is my reference
price.
This is not bad.
This is not bad at all,
and as you can see,
you definitely have some square errors,
but not so bad.
Or you can go even further I have.
I you know there's some terminology here.
Depth equal to two, meaning I have.
I have one condition.
I have another condition going further,
so if this the the House size less than
2733 OK I can further check whether or
not the size of the house less than 1796
square feet.
If so, true and true.
My reference price is close to 2270.
270K.
Otherwise, it's bigger than this.
1796 square feet, but less than that.
You know,
I should be paying a little bit more.
A 300 and O 5K.
And then you can.
You have 4 prizes here.
You can do this model and it is not bad
and then we can go even more and more.
Complex model.
So this is adapt 3 prediction.
It definitely look like this.
We catch up this definitely catch these
this anomaly and just go up only for this
point.
You know, keep going.
You keep going.
You have adapt equal to five depth equal
to seven depth equal to 10.
I did run those model.
I'm just showing you the decision tree.
Gonna look like this.
Gonna like this and this. OK.
And the result gonna be more and more
accurate.
You're gonna have this.
Gonna have this and you have this.
It's definitely more and more accurate.
It goes through depth equal to 10,
so give a pause here.
So we go more and more complex decision
tree.
You go from a very simple decision tree
like this.
Just say yes.
No one single question is it bigger than
2733 square feet or not?
To two questions, or actually three,
is it bigger than that or not?
And then the following question.
Look.
Two so many questions. 10 questions.
And definitely making a model more and
more accurate.
Is there any issue associated with this
ten question? Uh decision tree like this?
S.
From the data is definitely getting more
and more accurate.
But why don't we? Yeah, go ahead.
Oh, sorry,
there could be some overfitting going on
if you go too many levels on the train
data.
Right.
So then there's there's a terminology.
Noah.
Thank you for bringing that is 100%
accurate.
100% correct,
but last class we talked about one
terminology associated exactly what you
just said.
Or what is that term?
To over fit in.
Overfeeding. And then there's the one,
you know,
there's one thing is called overfitting
is the right one.
There's one thing that we said, OK?
So if you train a model more and more
complex and then we how we judge the
accuracy,
are we still using the train model to to
judge the accuracy or use another sad?
What is another set called to judge the
task or validation right so then?
So more complex or more accurate to the
train model or train accuracy.
What we usually see from the task or
validation is that more accurate or
usually is is less accurate and what is
not terminology called.
That we we gather tree model more and
more accurate. However the task model,
the test data get less and less accurate.
What is that term?
Bias.
The bias, yes, but it's the one of, yeah,
bias. Where is balance, right?
Bias variance.
So let me just open that back for you
guys.
Location. Things like.
How about this?
How about, uh, not this one?
And.
So I believe last time we talked about
this, right?
So the bias variance trade off, right?
So then you got more and more complex.
You got a train sample more and more
accurate,
but eventually your task will go up.
So this bias variance tradeoff is
something going to happen here.
And and this is a bad issue for.
Wait a second for the free model.
Right.
Play.
Just got stuck.
Close and open them.
OK.
So that's that's one thing.
So then you got more and more accurate
and then eventually.
Your your task model will be not as
accurate.
It won't be as as accurate,
so the tree model is so easy you can over
fit overfit the right term and then you
you definitely gonna see the bias
variance tradeoff.
And we can use a similar decision to do
the loan approval example.
So then this is some example.
We're gonna talk in the second-half of
the class.
Let me let's just take a 15 minute break
and then we can come back and talk about
this example, OK?
So let's come back around 703.
I will see you at 7:03.
Let's take a break.
See you guys in seven uh 15 minutes.
That you wouldn't just.
Stop scrunching.
I don't think you're supposed to put a
flashlight.
It's.
This is.
It's.
The perfect spots in my eyes.
Yo, Nathan Myers. You're not on mute.
OK.
Welcome back.
Is everyone back? I think so.
All right.
You guys hear me right?
Yep I can.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yep. Thank you.
Alright, welcome back, OK.
So the second example is the the loan
approval, right?
So then we we simplify.
You know,
just allow approval process into only
consider only consider two factors.
Number one is.
The candidate's income.
Let's say the candidate's or can earn
between $1000 per month to a $15,
000 per month pre tax.
And then also we consider not candidates
that we could be zero know that to $10,
000 per month.
So then,
so then those are the two factors we're
considering. And then let's just define.
Usually you know those low approval is is
based upon some rules.
So if some common rule could be like
let's say case one is,
if that person earns more than $10,
000 a month, no matter that person's,
that is.
Well,
and as the the person's dad can be as big
as $10,000 based upon this assumption,
so then.
So then that's just automatically
approved that loan.
However,
if if that person's income less than $10,
000, however,
bigger than $5000 and then only the that
is no more than 80% of that person's
income.
So then we let's approve that as well.
So in other cases we denial.
So usually this is the rule that you know,
the loan approval officer is following.
So let's just see if we can convert this
into a tree,
because essentially it is a tree.
So if we visualize the data here, right?
So now the X axis is the income of the of
the candidate.
The Y axis is the depth.
Of that candidate.
I put those.
Point so that As for any single point on
this 2D2 dimensional plane.
Then everything will.
For example this point.
Is green.
Meaning it got approved. It's red,
it got denied.
So for example this point,
so the ask coordinate of this point is
the income. As we can see,
it's definitely more than $10,
000 as we just mentioned for the rule,
we gonna automatically approve.
This, this, this guy.
And then so if the income is less than 10,
000,
so then that'll be this part of playing.
So that's in this point or this point?
So yeah, this last in 10,000.
The next checkpoint is 5000.
So the X coordinate of this point is
close to $10,000, so that is definitely.
So it's definitely bigger than 5000.
So then for the for the second role,
we have a condition that that has to be
lower than 4000.
So As for this point,
it's bigger than 4000 because that's ay
coordinate of this point.
So then this point,
it definitely this guy,
this candidate has income bigger than
more than $5000,
but that is also more than $4000.
So we have the deny the loan to this guy
for this guy.
It's on the boundary of 5000.
But luckily that is lower than 4000 and
we can still approve the loan for this
guy.
So if we put everything into.
Into the plane, right?
So then 10,000,
we prove everything here and there are
this blue shadow.
Otherwise,
is it bigger than 5000 for for the income
and lower than 4000 for the?
That will prove so then for this
two-dimensional plane we are really
divide this this this triangular area
into two.
In groups, right?
So the one is shadowed by this. This,
this,
this blue shadow in this dark green
shadow.
So those are the area.
Now we gonna approve.
And the the remain area is are,
are the candidates we will not approve.
Who we gonna we gonna deny.
So this is from a visualization
perspective how we see who we who we will
approve the loan to him or her.
And who will not?
So that's how we visualize our rule.
OK.
This is the fact.
This is the truth.
This is how we stand on the rule and
everything in this shadow region are
green.
All the points over there are green.
All the points in Unshadowed region are
red.
So that's how we separate the entire.
Rectangular area.
OK. And let's try a simple tree.
Then I rolled a code in Python.
I said OK, just give me one.
Super simple tree.
So then I gave the data to the to the
algorithm to to to,
to Python code and this is the outcome.
You basically say, hey,
if the income less than equal to.
$10,100.
If it true.
Then denying them.
It is a false.
So now means the income is bigger than 10,
100 approve.
That's a super easy decision.
Tree OK.
Let's see how it works on our plane.
So then.
It will prove those green dots.
And it will deny those.
Supposed to be green dots and then.
However, we just misclassified as.
Denied.
But we did not misclassify any red dot.
So basically we are setting a line here.
A $10,100 everything,
all the dots to the right of this line
approve to the left of this line. Deny.
So then that's why we misclassify those
green dots based upon one single 11
branch that equal to one decision tree.
By the way that equal to 1 means.
You have only one condition.
And you have only one question to answer.
So that's that equal to one. OK.
So now you have this.
So now let's see if we can.
We can do it better.
Let's just create a dot equal to two,
meaning you have a two conditions to
check and and I also build based upon the
same data.
The Python code and I didn't change this
original question.
I just want to build a decision tree
based upon it.
So the the original question is,
do you have a income less than equal to
$10,100?
So if your answer is no,
meaning I have a income bigger than $10,
100.
I will approve your law automatically.
Otherwise,
I will ask you another question.
I know your income is less than $10,100.
Do you have a debt less than equal to
three thousand 3772 dollars?
If you say yes, I will approve that loan.
Otherwise, I'll deny, so let's see.
Where we at?
So basically we put.
The first tree we built,
we put a horizontal line here.
We say.
Maybe I should change the color?
As he is blue.
We say, OK, here's our blue line.
Right, so whatever data.
That whatever point to the right of this
blue line, approve, otherwise deny.
So now the second branch,
the second question we are asking is the
following.
I know my points are to the left of this
blue line. Oh, sorry.
I know those are.
Those are to the left of this blue line.
Let me just add another line here.
Let me just add another line.
Whatever data above this let me change
the color.
There's a purple line,
but to the left of this blue line.
I gonna deny otherwise in this region,
I will still approve.
So you as you can see in the first time,
we deny those red dots which are supposed
to be approved.
Now we approve them.
But we approve those red dots which are
supposed to be denied,
so that we need to build something until
here. As you can imagine,
we can just pull the vertical line here
and we're done.
We can just pull the one another vertical
line here.
Let me call it yellow line.
Oh, it's too bright.
Gosh, black line, OK.
Another black line here, OK.
To the right here, not above.
To the right of this black line, approve,
approve, deny, deny.
So now we're done.
Let's see if that's what machine is doing.
Phone that e = 3.
Same two questions, right?
Do you have income less than $10,100? Yes.
Do you have the last name you called to
three 3772 dollars? Yes.
Do you have income less than?
Equal to 5011 hundred dollars.
If you say yes, I'll deny. If you say no,
I'll prove now.
We have the perfect answer.
So we didn't misclassify any single point
doing exactly.
We were predicting the machine will be
doing right.
We put the first line, the second line,
the third line here in the plane,
and then how?
That's how the tree model the machine is
deciding how to divide this plane into
four areas, 4 subareas.
And then we can calculate.
We can compare these decision tree.
From the model versus our original actual
rule,
our actual rule says as OK if income
bigger than $10,000 approved. OK.
This machine version is if your income
bigger than as $10,100 approved.
So the difference $100.
So if your income less than.
$10,000.
But bigger than this?
Close to $4000.
I will deny.
From our rule is if your income less than
$10,000. OK,
but your dad is bigger than $4000.
I will still deny. So similar to this one.
The the third one,
the third translation of of this,
the the last branch is.
If your income bigger than $5011.00,
but that less than equal to $3772,
I will prove that's exactly similar rule
to this case two and less.
Than this $5000 and last thing equals
$3772 and denial.
I will deny that that loan.
So as you can see.
This decision tree.
Built by the model is very close to our
actual rule,
so let's prove that we can actually use
those decision trees to build.
The regression model has for the house
price or classific classification model.
You know, As for this,
this alone approval process.
So then eventually we will have this
decision tree as a outcome of of this
tree model and you can translate those
trees into the rules.
And even if you do not know the actual
rule, whoever.
Is rule,
but you you can create you can use
machine learning to to to recreate it and
it's pretty close to the human set rule
as using this s s app.
OK as any questions.
Are you gonna show us how to code this?
Oh, yeah, yeah,
I'll show you how to go all about that.
The call is open.
OK.
It's just pretty simple.
You can tap into it.
Yeah, the homework won't be like, hey,
I didn't show you guys the call, but,
you know, recreate whatever.
I just show you guys.
It won't be like.
Let's see.
Let me see if I still have the code space
open.
Yeah, I'll upload this.
Classify tree model example to to the D2L.
So.
You're still loading those packages,
right?
So the libraries, but as you can see,
the more we learn,
the more libraries we are.
We are loading right.
So then now we are loading SK learn.
So they're going to give us a lot of a
good tools for us to use. For example,
like we're going to touch base on the
random forest later.
But you can just definitely.
Bring those information in. So then for.
These house price, right?
So then this is the code.
So what I did is just basically create
some normal distribution for the house
size.
Between $800 to four.
Sorry,
800 square feet to 4000 square feet and I
generated 100 data points.
So I create a hypothetical true formula
like this.
Just I just wanna know whether or not I
can replicate the true value from this
formula.
And then I definitely add some really
normal distribution, random noise to this.
So the Y noise so then to the to the
price.
Otherwise it gonna be really static.
If I remove this piece it'll be really
static like you'll see a Direct Line
every all the points are on the line.
So I'm adding this Y noise.
It will be really up and down.
So then this is as I mentioned,
this is really modeling all the other all
the other features other than the House
price.
Sorry house size.
So a simple try as I show you.
I mean just split into two buckets.
One is bigger than two,
two 2500 other one is lower than two 2500.
I just calculate the low, mean high mean.
That's the the you know the horizontal
line I'm showing you in a class.
And also I'm trying, you know,
a more complex versions.
To divide.
All the points into 4 buckets.
Less than thousand between thousand 2000.
Between 2003 thousand and bigger than
3000.
As for the the House size and I can
calculate the four averages and those are.
Those are the code and call a better
model. I'm showing you those numbers.
And later I'm just, you know,
creating a tree model is a is really a
simple tree, a decision, simple tree.
Just one tree. And that is showing you OK.
Let me just do adapt equal to 1.
So then this function right?
Just create this function plot tree and
then build a tree and feed the tree.
So then the ADAPT is is a is a parameter.
So that I this is in Python.
This is a way how you define a function.
The function can be anything,
and this depth is used as a argument.
What I mean,
meaning I in here I'm loading this
function.
I'm reading this function.
I'm really plugging in depth equal to 1
dot equals 2 dot equal to three dot equal
to five and that equals 7 and that equal
to 10.
In this for loop for loop is I gonna
assign this tab equal to whatever in this
in this vector in this list and then
assign the staff equal to those numbers.
Sequentially in in this function I I I I
I trim or trim model I I show how that
tree looks like.
That's why you are seeing that is called
1.
Going to be like this tree and this is
the.
This is the how that one prediction
versus actual data going to look like.
And this is adapt equals two,
and you're gonna look like this because
you are basically dividing the data into
four groups.
Dave, the code of three.
So then you are dividing the data into
eight group 123456788 groups and then
also five.
You're going to have sixteen groups and
getting more and more.
So those are the charts that you are
seeing in the deck?
So basically you can just simply run the
code in here.
You gonna? You're gonna have that?
You're gonna have the same results.
The loan approval.
So now I'm also generating some random
numbers.
Demonstrate the case.
I set up this this rule by the income
bigger than 10,000.
Bigger than 5000 and that less than 4000.
If those are the cases, I prove them.
Otherwise no so.
I'm also building a tree model and this
one.
One difference to call out is.
Here I'm calling this a decision tree.
Regressor. OK,
the decision tree regressor.
That means like my target.
Of this prediction are numbers.
Are numerical.
Features targets.
But here I'm calling decision tree
classifier because I'm predicting.
I'm predicting yes or no.
I'm predicting approved or or approved or
deny.
So this is really a yes, no question.
So that's that's the why I need to call
the decision tree classifier, right?
So then those are two different functions.
So I'm still like what I did for
regressor.
Just define a function.
So then you can just change the value of
this depth.
In fact,
I'm changing the depth value to going
from 12352 to seven and you can add more
numbers here and then you you definitely
increase the risk of overfeeding.
You don't usually.
People don't usually use like even that 7.
So we are changing the depth value.
That's how you see the original chart and
then we have the first decision tree with
depth equal 1.
Basically one single question and you see
those points are misclassified,
and then we add another question,
we see those red dots are missed or were
misclassified.
And another questions on that I fully I
have a full result.
So then technically.
That decoder 3 is good enough to to have
100% accuracy.
And then I still run adapt equal to 5.
You know that doesn't change anything.
So this is something that we can talk
about that because seven because depth
because.
3 already solve the problem.
You don't have to increase the depth so
then.
That's totally fine now.
OK.
So definitely you can recreate those by
running this code.
The only thing you call out is you're.
You're calling a regressor or classifier.
But once you define those those functions
and then you can just define this tree
model as.
Either regress or classifier and you can
define a macdath the MACD.
That is how many sort of a layer of a
questions you're asking and then you can
just do run this function and then your
tree model will will be built.
It's quite straightforward.
So everything has been prepared for you
by the scaler.
I think it's math.
You asked questions.
Did I answer your question?
Do you need to know more about those
model building?
No, that makes sense.
Just was curious how it worked.
Yeah, yeah, I'll I'll upload the code.
Yeah, using this as an example, right?
So as you can see,
when we reach the depth equal to three
and using this tree,
I'm sorry not this tree.
Using this tree that because three.
This tree this tree gave us 100% accuracy.
We don't have to ask more questions,
but in real life.
When you guys define when you guys design
A survey,
maybe want to separate your customers,
maybe we want to know.
Their opinion again and their opinion.
Towards our product.
We always usually like create more
questions,
but sometimes more questions are not
necessary in that decision tree.
So then in your real life use case,
you can actually build a model and see if
there's any question is not quite
necessary.
And then then you can actually the tree
model actually can help you realize that.
So yeah, so let's go back to here.
So then the machines the machine's
prediction machine's predicted rule is
close to the actual rule,
which is pretty optimizing.
So then this is how.
So those are two examples.
How we how it works?
OK.
So then the question being.
How did we even?
Start the first question given the data,
right?
Given the data that we have income and
then we have that,
how do we decide divide? How do we decide?
Do we?
Should we start with the income or should
we start with the debt?
Meaning should first question the first
question be is your income bigger than 10,
000 or if your that bigger than 10,000?
Last we,
which dimension of the data we should be
using?
Number #2 question in case you select
income.
There are so many values.
In in in income it could be.
2000 it could be 14,000.
Why the first original question is?
Is your income less than $10,100? How?
Income has been chosen and how $10,
100 has been chosen or calculated.
So that's another question.
We gonna talk about is the splitting
criterion right? So then.
There are there are three ways we gonna
do that.
One is called Geni impurity.
The second one is the entropy,
the third one,
those are for classification like the the
low approval cases.
Third one is MSE. The mean square error.
So that is for regression.
So no types. So there are three no times.
It's a root node decision node,
a leaf node. The root node is quite easy,
the top one.
The leaf nodes. Those are easy as well.
The bottom ones the the lowest ones.
But if this this is also a leaf node as
well, you cannot go any further.
Those are leaf node.
A decision.
Nodes are just somewhere in between.
Just basic definition thing.
So the real question is.
How should we split?
The how we build a tree, right?
How we decide the best way to split the
data into groups into two groups,
three groups and continue until more
groups?
So then that is called a recursive,
a binary splitting.
And how we do the splitting?
Let's see.
There are some formula here.
I'm just providing a formula on the genie
impurity. The formula is this the entropy.
The formula is this,
the MSE we talked about this formula
before.
So then I I guess I you guys want to see
some examples,
so let's just go to the examples and see
how we split the data using the three
method.
So then you, you know,
go hopefully go through those examples.
You understand?
Those formulas.
I see the first example.
OK. The genie impurity.
But let's say we have a data.
We have a data.
We want to predict whether or not a
person is going to default his her loan.
So then this is this is going to be the
target.
Whether or not that person default.
Add a color here.
This is our target.
All right, those are the features.
Right.
So then we have we have features like.
H Youth and senior mean age income high,
medium low student no yes and credit rate.
OK, let's say from the credit rate,
we do have two ways fair and accident,
right?
So let's see if we we we decide to use
the credit rate as the root root node.
And and that's just used impurity,
so the credit rate, we have two options.
One is fair. Another one is excellent. OK.
So then that means we decide to use a
credit credit rate as a first question.
If that's the, that's the,
that's the that's the data we're gonna
use so we can go to two branches.
Fair and excellent if we go to fair.
If we go to fair, this is a fair.
Those are fair.
And those are fair.
And this is fair.
So reading the credit rate equal to fair,
how many nodes do we have?
We have one node. We have one node.
We have two nodes.
So we have two nodes. We have six. Yes,
right.
So the impurity of Fair equals, OK.
We have a two nodes, we have 6.
Yes. When the credit rate is fair.
So in total there are 8 samples.
All of the 2 + 6 equals to 8 samples.
Two of them are no and six of them are
yes.
So when the credit rate equal to fair,
the probability of being.
Not default is 2 / 8 a quarter when the
credit rate equal to fair,
the person will default the the
probability is 6 / 8 three quarters.
So that so that we can calculate the
impurity of this fair, that is a 1 -,
2 / 8, ^2 -, 6 / 8, ^2.
So now give us.
If the credit rate equal to fair,
what is the impurity of that decision?
OK.
That is a .375.
And when the credit rate is excellent,
when it's excellent,
there are three cases that.
The the, the, the,
the the loaner will will default and
three of them didn't. The probability of.
People with excellent credit rate default
and also default those loans is 1/2.
And now default is also 1/2.
So the impurity of Acylen is an half and
half.
So then five.
South.
That we have this branch to the left hand
side.
Fair credit rate impurity is this number.
Excellent impurity is .5.
We have 8 samples.
We have 8 samples with credit rate equal
to fair.
We have 6 samples with the credit rate
equals excellent.
So the weighted impurity.
Of using credit rate as a root node is.
The 375 multiply 8 samples of the 14 and .
5 * 6 samples of the 14 so that give us
the impurity of.
.4285.
South.
Whatever that number is,
that is impurity of using credit rate as
the root note.
OK.
Now as you can see,
this credit rate is definitely not the
only option that we can choose.
As the root node.
So let's try another one student.
The student has.
Also two options,
no or yes in case they're yes.
Mm hmm.
Yes.
So if there are students.
Only one student will not default.
All six other students, they all default.
So for students,
they default the probability of their
being default is really, really high.
So the impurity is going to be this
number.
And if this is not a student,
you have a pretty much 1/2 and half,
right?
So then you have this number,
so you have 7.
Out of your 14 samples,
you have seven students.
You have a 7, not students,
so that you can do a weighted impurity.
So you calculate impurity will be this.
So then, so then using student.
As.
As as a root node,
give us a lower impurity metric compared
to using the credit rate.
That means that using students are pretty
good decision to do it,
just because after splitting the data is
less impure.
So then that shows that using student as
a root node is a better choice.
And and that's how.
Based upon this data,
we decide to use student.
And then you can go this income,
you can go this age or recalculate the
impurity and then you can just evaluate
decide which one of those columns you
should be using as a root node.
For now,
this is how you understand the math
behind the scene.
You do not have to calculate any of them
because the algorithm already cod
everything in the package,
so you don't have to do it,
but just so you aware this those are the
mathematics behind the scene, you know it.
You know it K.
The entropy is similar,
so entropy is another way to describe.
To describe this is impurity that we just
calculated before.
We still use the credit rate you have.
Fair. Excellent.
In this kind of distribution.
So instead of using.
The impurity formula.
We're using this formula.
They're going to be the probability.
Multiply the log base two of that
probability.
So this is.
More uncertainty associated with 111
branch or or or the decision of the
branch.
So that's how the entropy is is
calculated.
So you can just basically remember this
formula which is also coded and and doing
this similar calculation you still
calculate the probability and just plug
in this formula.
You have this the weighted entropy of
using credit rate is this.
And the weighted entropy of using student
as a rule node is is .
7885 which is less than that,
so it has lower.
Weighted entropy.
So that means is less uncertain.
To use a student as a rule node.
So that's why this is a better choice.
Usually usually using either impurity or
entropy, you have the same results.
Where?
Where do you have a different so you can
use either one so then and and and
they're pretty much gonna be like less
than 1% of a chance.
You guys have to code it from scratch.
You can just basically call.
You can just basically call the function
and the call function already have those
formula built in.
So you can just use it.
This is basically telling you why we're
doing this.
And then let's talk about the regression.
So let's see.
We have another data and we want to build
a regression tree.
So those are the drug effectiveness.
If the three years old,
there's no effectiveness.
6 year old no effectiveness.
10 year old no effectiveness but 12.
You have 513 is 10 and 15 to 2500%
effectiveness, 30 year old.
They have 75 and 35.
They have fifty older than 40.
You you have a 0 effectiveness from from
the from that.
Network. OK, so you can.
Actually,
you can actually divide the data.
By moving this by moving this this this
red bar so you can say OK, so let's say.
H.
Less than five versus H bigger than 5 SH
less than five.
I have only one data point.
That is, age equals three,
and the effectiveness of drug equals 0.
What I will be doing is I'll calculating
the average of this only single data
point that gonna give me 0.
Because average of one data point is just
itself.
And the data where age bigger than five.
I have all of the remaining.
What I will do is I will calculate the
average of everything bigger than
fiveyearold so that that will be this.
That would be this horizontal horizontal
line. OK.
This is a one way I can divide the data
into two branches and my question is,
are you younger than five year old?
That will be my root node and you're
saying yes?
If you're younger than five year old,
I my prediction of your efficient drug
effectiveness is going to be 0.
And if they say no,
that means you're older than five year
old.
My prediction of the the draw
effectiveness gonna be around 40.
If that's the case.
I have this only data point in this age
lesson five group.
My prediction going to be 0.
And all the other guys are in the second
group, meaning my age bigger than five,
older than five year old.
My prediction going to be 38.57.
What I will do is I'll do the absolute
difference between.
The actual drug effectiveness.
Versus my prediction, which is here is 0.
So then there's no error.
It's a perfect prediction.
However.
For the for the patients who are older
than fiveyearold.
The drug.
The drug effectiveness won't be won't be
perfectly accurate,
so that they have a 0I predict close to
40 they have a 0I predict close to 4000 a
prediction.
Also close to 40.
So now I will calculate the absolute
difference between the actual
effectiveness versus my single prediction,
which is 38.57.
My dear friends,
I will square them and sum them up and
divide number of samples in this group
and now give me my MSE.
Meaning it's a super high it's 1828.
So now.
What I do is I move the bar.
To here, instead of asking the question,
are you 5 year old?
I'm asking question,
are you younger than 14 year old?
So then my this horizontal.
Horizontal line will be around this and
this guy will be around this.
OK.
So then, so those are the guys.
Younger than 14 year old.
I calculate average again so that my
prediction of those guys.
Have 3% of a drug effectiveness.
And for the remaining guys who are older
than 14, I'm saying hey,
and this you have 52.
5% of a drug effectiveness.
I can still compare their actual drug
effectiveness versus my prediction,
but now I'm not going to have any perfect
prediction anymore.
I have a 0.
I have a your drug effectiveness actual
is 0.
I have a three my difference absolute
difference also three and I got a square
root.
I give.
I have an eye and I just calculate the
absolute difference between my prediction
and the actual drug effectiveness,
and then eventually I just sum them up
and divide the total number of samples
and then I have MSE.
1300 close to 1400,
which is less than this 1800 that just
basically showed me that, you know,
asking the question whether or not a
patient has age less of 14 is a better
ask question than.
This one.
South.
That's why I chose to use this one versus
another one.
You can basically go through all the
possible ages and calculate the MSE and
that if you go through everything you
gonna have one single number could be 14,
could be 20.
Now minimize this MSE and that number.
Say that number is 20,
so age less than 20 gonna be your
optimized question to ask as the first
step.
So this for those regression,
meaning I'm predicting a numerical
feature.
That's how I find the best metric.
Faster feature.
I should be using and the best the number
I should be using,
so split the entire plane into two or
three.
That's how I do it.
So that's sort of the two different ways
for classification and one single way for
regression.
How you choose the root cause feature and
how you decide what kind of number you
should be using.
For regression.
And that's that's the idea behind the
scene.
That's what I said.
This is basically demonstrating of how oh
I need to have the charger here.
How those models are built,
but there's no expectation for you guys
to code everything from scratch.
When you call the model,
you already have everything set up for
you.
OK. Any questions?
OK.
I I think I talk about a lot of
calculation.
OK.
Alright,
so let's talk about the advantage of
using decision trees, right? So then.
Decision trees are pretty easy to
interpret, right?
So then as you can see.
Decision trees are just basically coming
from questions, right?
So then I have a question one.
And then that could be yes or no.
That could be a decision tree.
So now this is decision tree.
Is is mimicking how humans are making
decisions and it's it's it's it's a
direct translation of human making
decisions and to to to machine languages.
So the quite a quite a straightforward to
visualize what we understand.
And also you can you can also use the
decision tree result.
To predict the rules that the human set
up.
So that is another advantage of using
Decision tree that you you only have the
final number result and then you can also
use the decision tree and translate it
into a guidance of.
How that decision making process will
look like?
So that's why a lot of people like the
decision trees,
they can not only build a model,
they can also use a model to set up a
framework.
For business to make the right decision
and and not and not a lot of machine
learning algorithm has that the benefit.
When we talk about a neural network or
other models,
you wouldn't be doing doing that just
because that's a pure black box for
decision tree.
You can actually see how the final
outcome has been generated.
So now this that's a a big advantage of
using this entry.
Another one is definitely nonlinear.
From the data that you can see is this is
how a nonlinear plane was created by the
human rule. If you are using, for example,
if you are using linear regression,
you wouldn't have the boundary of this
like this P curve kind of curve.
All right.
So then to separate this entire 2D2
dimensional plane?
You wouldn't be able to do that.
You you cannot have that in in linear
regression.
But for decision tree definitely you can
separate this plane.
So it's definitely not linear.
Right.
So then we talk about the meeting data,
because when I mentioned we were talking
about the House house price.
Example right?
So then we we said, OK.
How are we going to handle those?
Meeting them? Missing hoas?
Decision trees can naturally handle that.
So for example,
like if from a not this month.
From this credit rate,
I'm just predicting we're using credit
rate to do the decision and turns out
that the income here this guy is is
missing so that you're, you know this guy.
Is this guy has the credit rating code of
Fair?
So now I can give you some example to
guess this income.
High low median category.
So then that's another advantage of
Decision Tree is that you can handle the
meeting values based upon whatever is
available.
And now I'm gonna give you some more.
Evidence to guests.
Anything that is amazing.
And definitely it's a flexible, right?
So then.
And and you can.
You can build your own decision tree and
you can rely on the codes to build their
decision tree.
Eventually we're comparing version one
decision tree versus the version two
decision tree.
Those are trees.
They can directly compare.
OK.
So those are the advantages.
The disadvantages is the overfitting.
We we talked about overfitting just
because in those examples, right?
So then.
Like this one?
We can keep going.
We can connect all the dots here and
eventually we have no doubt to connect,
but does not mean anything.
That means,
like we fully understand the train data
and for tasks that is not on those points.
For example, if I have a doubt here,
I didn't connect those dots,
I will have a big error to predict that
new data.
So overfitting is a big issue.
Of the decision tree.
1930s.
And insatiability.
So then if any changes that we can
definitely change decision tree.
And and and there are some biases that if
you have more categories and definitely
you have biases.
So so for decision tree you will start
having.
A number of of of parameters that you
will tune, right?
So then you can always.
Train a tree model.
Out the box,
meaning you have all the parameters as
default.
You have one tree and then eventually you
have to optimize that model.
Right now for the tree model you're going
to have not only one,
but a number of them that you're going to
try different values.
So this is going to be a optimization
process and then we're going to talk
later and then you may have to use 11
technique.
It's called grade search,
meaning you're trying to build all
different tree models based upon all
different set of parameters that you
provide to that to the model to try.
And you're gonna select the best model
based upon outcome. The accuracy of the,
you know, validation, validation set and.
Then go through all the possible
combinations of of of parameters.
It's called grade search.
And then we got a touch base on that
later.
OK,
just because the tree model has a big
overfitting issues.
So then there's a technique called
pruning, so pruning is.
Is sort of like.
It's sort of like like this idea is
coming from you.
You want you want to plant a tree.
So my my, my,
my wife really loves those those plants
like flower or tree or stuff.
So she she put some some tree into my RR
yard and then and see how the tree grows,
right?
So then, but sometimes.
There are some tiny branches that really
cost and it really grows nothing right.
So then she gonna cut them off?
The same idea.
Gonna apply to this pruning process.
This is really like we we number one we
are,
we are increasing our risk of overfeeding
here.
#2 is some of the branches really does
not provide any value.
Let me give one example.
App to go to three model.
Could have looked like a really good
model.
The only thing that is super bizarre to
me is this one single dot.
It seems like.
This branch or this single prediction is
only for this point.
I, you know, just looking at the data,
I cannot tell why this point is so
different compared to here compared to
this guy compared to this guy.
If I were the person,
maybe I should predict a spike here
instead of here.
I do not know why I have.
This prediction solely for one point.
So maybe the question associated with
this point.
Is meaningless.
And is not necessary.
So then you may actually cut this branch
and connect this guy you know use this
prediction.
That's pretty good. Good enough. So this.
Will be really unnecessary and then just
gather it all this branch or this one
single node is a pruning.
It's a pruning process.
Oh, where is it?
Is a pruning.
So you can use some techniques already.
Stopping to you don't have to do the
pruning,
but sometimes you do have to analyze it
and and improve the tree yourself.
Let me just still using this House size a
house price as an example.
This is data we have seen before, right?
Let's see.
This is one example, right?
So then we have a decision tree with four
leaves.
Four leaves are here.
Those are the leaves and this is this is
a root node.
Those are decision nodes, so if 4,
this is a pretty good decision tree.
This is decision tree with three leaves.
And two leaves and we have seen those
before.
So based upon the train data.
The more leaves that you have.
Oh, actually it should be the opposite.
Let me to show change the loop in every
time decision of them.
The more leaves that we have for the
train arrows.
It will definitely going down because you
have more branches, you have more leaves,
you're separated data more and more into
the smaller groups and then your train
arrow gonna be smaller and smaller.
And sometimes a lot of time before you
hit that bio virus trade off.
Your test error is also getting smaller
and smaller. OK.
So now I give you 1 motivation that you
know what.
This is going two to four my arrows.
My prediction errors are getting smaller
and smaller.
Why?
What blocks me from doing that say 5678
and just keep going?
You definitely can.
You can even have 30 leaves and then make
a model like this and then we know that
and because this is because of the
overfitting. So.
Instead of just using the arrows over
there, you, you we we have seen before.
That's add another.
Factor call it complexity.
The complexity is a measurement of.
How complex the model is, right?
So this is really simple model because
you have only two leaves.
You can go one way or the other.
This one is more complex than this
because you say one versus the other from
from from one of the two you go to
another two options and this one.
Is definitely more complex,
so using number of leaves.
The number of leaves are really
representing.
The complexity of the node models.
So now we can define a score of a tree,
that is that your your total error of
your prediction.
This is a this is sum of squared error.
Total error of a prediction plus an alpha
which is a coefficient.
Multiply your complexity for this.
A four leaf tree.
The complexity for for this a three leaf
tree the complexity is 3.
For these are two leaf tree.
The complexity complexity is 2 and the
error the four deep tree is definitely
smaller.
If the error equal to 0,
we know the four leaf tree has the
smallest error, which is good as expected.
But we want to compensate.
We want to punish the complexity because
the more complexity now we we we we add
to the tree.
The more risk we are exposing to.
Overfeed the data.
So we want to have some OK complexity
tree with.
OK, as a with OK error right?
So then we do other overfit and we do not
want to have super big error either.
We just want to balance the two.
Let's say if you choose 1A just the the
reason I choose this number just because
the error is just because the square
error is pretty big.
If I choose this error.
The most complex tree which is the tree
is 4 leaf.
They still give us the smaller tree score,
so then that's still the best model.
The tree score is not as high as possible.
You want to make it.
You want to consider as low as possible
because the error is part of it.
You want to have a low error.
You want to have to have like low
complexity and alpha is the only one
number like bigger than equal 0, right?
But if you increase the error alpha to
some number like this,
the 3 billion you start finding that the
tree score the two leaf tree gonna give
you the smallest tree score, which means.
If you really don't need 4 tree tree and
then you think that implementing such a
complex model is banning you a lot of
effort.
A2 Leaf tree will be good enough.
So then based upon your selection of this
alpha,
you should be using this 2 bit tree.
You can consider an easy way to consider
this.
Alpha is you can build a really complex
model.
But let's say this pretend that we we
don't even have pythons, right?
You have the code.
Everything where you have to pull those
effort into Excel.
This really means the effort you have to
put to to use the model.
Now you build the more complex model you
build, the more effort, the more money,
the more cost you.
You're gonna you're gonna realize.
You're gonna.
You're gonna realize in the future.
You don't want to do that if your effort
isn't this much, you feel it's OK effort.
And you can still implement a more
complex model totally fine,
but you're saying that I this model is
cost me $3 billion to implement.
I and I I'd rather just reduce the
complexity of this to compensate the
effort and money you're gonna spend on it.
So that means that you have to use this
model.
So that's how alpha is chosen.
Based upon there's no,
there could be some default values for
for the alpha in whatever tree model
you're implementing,
but the best alpha is not coming from the
model.
The best alpha is coming from the user
you whoever is using this,
how do you like a complex model?
Or or. Another question is,
how do you dislike a complex model?
That will drive you to choose the right
alpha for you and for your company, right?
And this is how it works.
Again,
this is basically saying to explaining
how this alpha parameter will work,
and then you gonna select it if you
select alpha,
the algorithm gonna automatically say you
select an alpha as this big the the model
gonna build this more complex model for
you at the beginning but.
Since you tell the model that.
I don't like such a complex model and the
model gonna cut the branches for you and
convert this most complex model into this
last complex model.
For you based upon your selection of the
alpha.
OK.
So that's why the machine learning AI is
how the algorithm is working with a human.
Because you need to provide algorithm
what you want to do and the algorithm
will change their selection,
their behavior to give you the best
result based upon your selection of the
parameters.
Right.
So that if you don't tell the mother what
to do, the model may be overfitting.
That's something that we have to taken
care of, those those numbers. OK,
so those are some key hyperparameters in
tree models.
You can definitely have.
You can read it.
You can in the homework and definitely
try.
So that's pretty much everything I want
to cover about the tree model today.
So next time we gonna talk about the
bootstrap and and and the gradient
boosting.
So those are two different versions of a
group of trees,
and then we gonna talk about the the
random forest.
I hope you guys heard about that. And.
And we're gonna talk about the gradient
boosting trees.
So those and then how they build and what
the algorithm behind the scene.
And why they are better?
But now be the next time.
Any questions?
I know there is a lot of math.
Structures with child space today.
You definitely need to read the slides
again.
I'll upload slides to.
The D2L.
I'll share the codes so then try the
examples and start building some models
yourself and then you can get a better
understanding of the tree models.
Alright.
So if you there's no question,
I'll stay here for another 7 minutes.
If you have any question,
you can stay and ask.
Otherwise,
you know you can sign up and then have a
break tomorrow going to be another great
day.
Thank you.
Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you, Eric.
Hopefully a lot of fun.
So Nathan and Jayden are,
do you guys have any questions?